---
layout: home
title: E Portfolio
---
# Introduction
My name is Kai Britzman. I'm an Applied Data Science student at Harper Adams University. I'm currently in my first year and have studied a variety of modules, including Professional and Study Skills, Computing Technology and Data Visualisation. I’ve learnt many hard skills, such as programming in Computing Technology and plotting graphs in R in Data Visualisation. However, in Professional and Study skills, I have learnt lots of soft skills. These are skills that will make me stand out. Many people applying to Data Science jobs can code and plot graphs, but some may lack essential soft skills. In this e-portfolio, I will explain what I have learnt from this important module and how having these skills will make me more valuable in the workplace. 

## Enterprise Authoring and Presentation Tools
During the module, we learnt about Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint. These are tools that I was already familiar with, and I used them for many tasks. I used Word and PowerPoint in school for Imedia and other courses. I then used it much more predominantly during college which was an essential we used. All presentations were on PowerPoint, and every module, apart from the exam modules, had a presentation. We then used Word for most other things like research, specification documents, evaluations etc. We also used Excel a lot for Gantt charts, which was present in every module, apart from exam modules. 

However, I have learnt a few new things. For word, I learnt how to use it more efficiently. I learnt lots of new keyboard shortcuts. I knew the basic ones, like CTR V, CTR C and CTR A. I have become very efficient in using these shortcuts over the years. However, I never ventured beyond that. I mostly manually did stuff using the ribbons like undoing and redoing work. However, while it doesn’t take a long time, a few seconds at most, it can make my workflow much more sluggish. After learning about the various shortcuts for different functions in Word, I now have a new mindset about work efficiency. This will come with practice and applying the shortcuts when needed.

From the lectures we have had about this topic, I have identified several strengths with Microsoft 365 (Microsoft 365 is a software package that allows you to access Microsoft Word, PowerPoint etc). The first strength is that it’s easy to use and efficient. The interface for all Microsoft 365 applications is simple and easy to follow. All commands and tabs are in the ribbon, which is a banner at the top of the screen. They also have a navigation bar, which means all tabs and commands are organised and it’s easy to find what you are looking for. When you hover over each tab and command with your cursor, there is a mini description of what it does. This makes it even easier to learn on your own and discover things as you use it.
Another strength is when you are using it academically, is its used in the workplace and you are building basic skills. If you are working in an office, or non-physical job, you will almost definitely use Word, PowerPoint or Excel. You will use Excel a lot if you are an accountant or work with datasets. You will use Word for reports to clients for all kinds of jobs like digital marketing or consulting. You will then use PowerPoint for presentations for clients or co-workers for any job that involves a computer. Overall, you will almost always encounter Microsoft 365 in your job, So, using them academically will build skills early, instead of learning it on the job. Most people will also have these skills, so if you don't, you will be at a significant disadvantage. (Joseph Mhango)

As with everything though, there are weaknesses. One is cost. You will need a license to access Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel etc. This can be expensive, especially for a school or college, with hundreds, if not thousands of computers and accounts that will need access to it. 

Another weakness is learning curve. While Microsoft 365 software have simple interfaces, they do have complicated functions built in. It can be overwhelming opening software and seeing all these buttons and not knowing what they do. Many students who go to college/university may get very overwhelmed because they have never had to use Microsoft tools due to their choice of subjects/courses being primarily exams and written work. So, it can be a big learning curve.

AI is a tool that many people use for their work. Well known ones being ChatGPT and Copilot. However, most people access these AI tools on the internet. This means as they work, they have to have two windows open to use it. I used to do this however I have now learnt how to use AI within Microsoft Software. For Word, I now know how I can use it within the actual software and how I can use it to enhance my work. It can also be used in Excel to automate data entry, which is relevant to my course. You can also use it in PowerPoint for presentation ideas, like how to organise content. Being able to proficiently use AI in Microsoft software will make me much more efficient when working. 

Right now, I would say I have intermediate level skills in Word and PowerPoint. I can make professional looking reports and presentations using the functions in the software. I would say I'm a beginner in using Excel. I haven’t used Excel excessively outside of university. I have only used it for Gannt charts and occasionally making tables with data. So, Excel is something I need to use more extensively to improve my skills. 

To make sure I achieve mastery in Microsoft Word and PowerPoint, I will keep experimenting with the different functions and see what they do. I will also make sure to learn more keyboard shortcuts so I can become more efficient in my work. As I already have skills in these software, I just need to experiment on the more advanced functions. For Excel, I will make sure to use Excel to store data and use it to analyse the data. This is directly linked to my course (Data Science) so it will be useful to make sure I have practical experience that I can bring to a future job. I expect to achieve mastery in Microsoft tools by the end of my course.

## Information Literacy
The internet has made it much easier to research and find information. Before, you had to go to libraries and read books to find it. Now, you can go onto the internet and find information on almost anything. However, the internet isn’t always accurate. Anyone can use the internet and produce fake information. For my assignments in college and school, I used to use primarily Google to research stuff that I didn’t know. This won’t be sufficient for university work and corporate tasks. I developed a new mindset when it comes to research. In Professional and Study Skills, I have learnt how to use academic sources for informative and correct information.

The main academic catalogue I have learnt is Scopus. In Scopus, you can use keywords to find sources on information you want. For example, you may want to research how AI can be used to enhance education. You will likely have key words like AI, education etc. You can then find journals that have information on those topics. You may have thousands of results, but you can filter them using years they were published, the country of publication etc. To make sure your search results are good, try to experiment with the key words. Sometimes people use different terminology to you, so using a variety of words can help you find the sources you want. 

PICO is a method to break a question down into different sections to help with research. PICO is an acronym. “P” is who/what is being studied. This could be a certain type of soil for example. Then “I” which is the change/condition. This could be intense rain conditions. Then “C” is what you are comparing it against, which could be intense heat/drought. Then “O” is what you measure, like yield. This helps you come up with keywords that you can then use on Scopus to find journals/articles on your chosen topic. The strength of this is it’s simple to conduct and easy to remember because it’s an acronym. A weakness however is that is not very flexible as it focuses on a set question structure and is biased to quantitative based research, as most questions designed this way include numeric data that changes because of certain conditions. (Joseph Mhango)

Evaluating sources for credibility is very important. This is because many sources contain misinformation. They may have conducted false research and gave the wrong figures or just get definitions wrong. Because of this, many people are taking in false information as true and using it in their assignment or research paper. Giving the wrong information shows that you don't know what you are talking about. Also, using sources with wrong information can lead to false conclusions if conducting research, which could ruin a company’s reputation if done corporately, and can lose you lots of marks if done academically. So, making sure that your sources are reliable by looking at who published it and seeing their reputation, then seeing when it was written, so the information isn't outdated. It may have been correct, but it's now redundant as concepts may evolve over time. 

My current searching skills are in-between beginner and intermediate. I can use libraries like Scopus, and I know how to filter stuff I don't want and how to use keywords. However, I can sometimes struggle with finding specific things I want. I will however continue to develop my skills by using them during my assignments over my whole time at university. I will be able to put my skills to real practice, and I can see how I have improved by looking at my assignments now and how they were before. If my searching skills improved, my reference lists will be longer, and I would have included more obscure knowledge. I expect to achieve mastery by the end of my course. 

## Coding and Collaboration Platforms
Before I started this module, I didn't know about Git, GitHub or GitHub Pages. I didn't even hear about them, so this was a big learning curve. 

Git allows you to commit changes to your project and lets you access previous work. This means when you do another commit, you can still access your previous commit. This means you don’t lose your previous work. 
GitHub also allows for collaboration. You need to create a repository, which is where you store your project files. Then, you can invite people to join your repository and let people work on them. This allows for easy collaboration, as you don’t have to create unique repositories for each person working on the project, you can all work in one. 
GitHub can also let you present your work to the world. GitHub is like social media, where you have a profile and others can view your work if your repository is public. This is great for potential employers to see your practical work and for topics to bring up in interviews. It can also give people great ideas and overall develops peoples interest in you. 

Git Pages are also great to showcase your knowledge to the public. GitHub webpages are websites made from GitHub. For example, I used GitHub webpages for my Data Visualisation assignment. It had all my knowledge I learnt from that module, with coded examples. My future employers can see this, and they get to see my knowledge of visualisation. Someone else may have similar knowledge, but because I have something like this public, I will be more likely hired. (Joseph Mhango, Ed Harris 2025)

Git and GitHub are similar but different things. Think of Git as like a draft folder. It keeps snapshots of your project which means you can access older versions of your projects. GitHub is a website that lets you host Git repositories. This allows you to open code spaces and use git commands for version control. Essentially, git is keeping different versions of your project, and GitHub is a place where you can do that. (Joseph Mhango 2025)

To explain git technically, git stores your snapshots like data, each one with the changes you made from the prevoius commit. Git also has something called branches. Branches are workspaces that are separate to your main one. This means you can experiment with things without worrying about ruining something. Some git commands include ```git status```. This will show what branch you are on, which files have been modified and more. It essentially shows how your repository is right now.  It's best practice to do this frequently (Joseph Mhango 2025). ```git add``` moves your changes in your working directory into the staging area. It won’t produce a output if done correctly. ```git commit``` will produce a new commit. This means it will produce a snapchat of all your changes, meaning you can access it whenever. I used this command the most when using git during my time at university, as it allows me to version control. 

As this is my first time using git, I have had many strengths and challenges when using it. For example, one of my main challenges is using commands and understanding the technical aspects of git. This has been a struggle to understand, however as I come to use it more, I will also come to understand how it works technically. Some strengths I do have is creating repositories, code spaces, commits and making GitHub pages. I have used these for other aspects of my course. For example, I have used code spaces and commits for the Computing and Technology course extensively, and can confidently make a GitHub webpage because it is what we use for the majority of our written assignments. 

Collaborative tools like GitHub will be used heavily for my academic and professional journey. This is because many assignments may ask us to work in pairs. This is where collaborative tools like GitHub will help. For example, one assignment may ask us to make a software solution, and we must work in pairs. GitHub will allow us to create one repository and let other people make edits in the code space. This is similar for my professional development. In the work force, there will certainly be times I have to work with other people. A client may ask for a big software solution, so we need multiple people working on it to make the deadline the client wants. Having these collaborative tools like let us work at the same time. 

I'm still a beginner with git and have a lot to learn. I can do commits, having a basic understanding of repositories and how git works. However, I will be able to improve my skills by doing more projects on GitHub for University assignments. This will naturally allow me to use GitHub more and know more about it. Full mastery in git will likely be in 5+ years, as advanced functions can take a while to understand and be proficient in. 

## Continuous Professional Development (CPD)
My professional development is important to ensure that I'm employable and have a good online presence. Professional development is improving my skills and learning new ones. I knew about these things, but I never knew how to apply them or how to start. So, this part of the module has been useful. 

There are many ways to do this. One is to join professional networks like LinkedIn. These are websites/apps where you have your own profile, like a short description of yourself and links to other professional networks you may be on. As well as that, you will have your experience in the work place, education and projects. I already have an Indeed account, where I have already applied to many part time jobs. It's not fully developed, and I didn't really know how useful a good professional online presence is. In the future, I will be developing a LinkedIn, explaining my experience and education. This will show to future employers I'm capable of producing good work. It may also lead to new contacts as people can find my profile and send me a message. 

I now fully understand my programme specifications and key academic milestones. I can look at the modules in my course, and I can identify what skills I will get from them. I also know how I can apply these skills, by doing assignments or work placements. For example, I know one of my modules is Real World AI, which will give lots of knowledge of how machine learning algorithms work. I also know I will be able to show my skills in the assignments for the module, and I know I can do online courses to further practice and show my skills. I also now know the holidays (Easter, and summer holidays) is the best time to do work placements to allow for more practical and real world practice. 

These things combined can allow me to achieve marketable graduate attributes. This is because I know how where I can present myself online, allowing people to find me online. This will also mean they can see physically what I have done, like projects, instead of me just talking about it. I also know how I can apply my skills I learn on my course, and opportunities where I can do this. Essentially, understanding my course specifications and where I can improve my skills, will allow me to stand out more in professional networks, as I can put more unique content on them. 

As I'm at the start of my university degree, I'm still developing my basic skills related to my course and experience. However, as my course goes on, I will discover more opportunities and new skills to learn. By doing a combination of practicing on my own time and doing assignment related work, I will improve my skills and improve my professional online presence as I will have more skills to show and talk about. Achieving mastery in professional development may take many years, as its small things over time.

## Responsible Use of AI
A few years ago, people didn't understand what AI was, but now almost everyone knows what it is. Most people may recognise it as just something people use for research and making it write assignments for them. However, it can be a powerful tool if used right (Ed Harris 2025). 

I already knew what most of what is acceptable AI usage and what are unacceptable uses of AI. You can use AI is for ideas for assignments, like how to structure the document and use ideas from AI but write them in your own words and make sure to elevate it with your own ideas. You also use it to make practice questions for exams, make a diagram of graphic and getting feedback (Harper Adams). I have used AI for previous assignments for this reason. To make sure I have met all the criteria of the assignment brief and to make sure the content makes sense and ideas I explained are correct. 

Some unacceptable uses of AI are using it as your only source of information, not checking if the answers produced are correct, directly copying an AI answer, copying references made up by AI and adding personal details to the AI prompt because of data protection and sensitive information (Harper Adams). 

To make sure you avoid plagiarism and making sure your work is your own, you should make sure to write your ideas in your own ideas and add personal touches. You can get ideas from AI, however, to make sure it’s your own work, you need to write it in your own style, not copying and pasting, and making sure you elevate it by adding your own ideas. This way the idea is more original and avoids plagiarism. 

To make sure I engage with evolving AI polices in my future career, is to make sure I read the news and any blogs the company I work for may write. This way, I know what is happening, I'm making sure to stay up to date with how my company is planning to use/implement AI. I can look at other companies’ blogs, however It is best if I read my own companies blogs, so I know more specifically what they want to do, rather than another company. 

I have a strong foundational knowledge on AI as a user, but I'm still a beginner when it comes to how machine learning algorithms work and how to use it as a professional, not a user. I will naturally develop my skills in the Real-World AI module and other AI modules on my course. I can also develop more skills with online courses with websites like Coursera and watch YouTube videos on them. I likely won’t achieve complete mastery on responsible uses of AI and AI in general because its evolving quickly and new uses of AI are made regularly, so new challenges arise.  

## References
Harper Adams University (2025) *Week 2: Study notes*: Available at: https://vle.harper-adams.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=278 (Accessed: 20/01/2026)
Harper Adams University (2025) *Working well with AI*. offical university guidance: Available at: https://hub.harper-adams.ac.uk/mod/resource/view.php?id=645550 (Accessed: 20/01/2026)
Harper Adams University (2025) *Week 8: Collaboration and version control*. Available at: https://vle.harper-adams.ac.uk/course/view.php?id=278 (Accessed: 20/01/2026)
Harper Adams University (2025) *Week 10 Professional Development*. Available at: https://vle.harper-adams.ac.uk/course/section.php?id=4466 (Accessed: 21/01/2026)
